#CSS_SPECIFICITY 1.1 - Intro to CSS specificity
#CSS_SPECIFICITY 1.2 - A look at what we know
#CSS_SPECIFICITY 1.3 - A look at an example
#CSS_SPECIFICITY 1.4 - Weights explained
#CSS_SPECIFICITY 1.5 - Outro to CSS specificity



#VIDEO_TEMPLATE 1.1 - Intro to CSS specificity
Hey Chris from Codify Academy here, in this video I want to look at something known as CSS specificity. If there is a styling conflict then "specificity" will determine which property is applied to a given element.



#CSS_SPECIFICITY 1.2 - A look at what we know
As of know we know 3 selectors pretty well, the ID selector, the CLASS selector, and the type selector for HTML tags
each of these selectors are given a weight in CSS, the weight is then used to figure out which selector will apply which property to a given element.



#CSS_SPECIFICITY 1.3 - A look at an example
In this example, we have a p tag with an ID and a CLASS in our HTML and we'll use the same property on all 3 selectors, which one will apply?
you should expect the background to be black because cascading goes from the top to the bottom.

But the Id selector will win because it is given the most weight by CSS.

If we remove the ID then the class has the most weight and has its value applied.

and finally if we just have the type selector left, that applies.



#CSS_SPECIFICITY 1.4 - Weights explained
When we load up the page, every selector is awarded specificity points, which are hyphenated.
If we use an id as a selector the points awarded would be 1-0-0
If we use a class as a selector the points awarded would be 0-1-0
and If we use a type selector the points awarded would be 0-0-1

we'll learn more about this point system in a but, but just know ID selector will take precedence over a class selector if they share the same property or properties and a class selector will take precedence over a element type selector, if they share the same property or properties.


#VIDEO_TEMPLATE 1.5 - Outro to CSS specificity
I know this will complicate things for now but trust me once you get over the hurdle of understanding how cascading and specificity work together, it will be easier to build and manipulate HTML and CSS.
